Okay, we're on side two now.
One thing you mentioned in your Logan book is that he really was not concerned about rarity or value or scarcity.
The text.
You use the phrase good books, not rare books.
Well, the best edition rather than the first edition.
Because that was quite irrelevant.
Scarcity was, in terms of value, was quite irrelevant to him, I gather.
How does his taste
stand up now over the centuries in books.
Well, he has, in many instances, the best edition, but as I say, he didn't want to buy a Venice 1470 Dandy, which he could have, and bought instead a later one with notes.
Well,
Too bad.
Are you setting a specific case?
He did have an opportunity to get that done?
That's right.
How did you know this?
From a letter.
I mean, he complained about the price of one, you see, and then ordered another.
Then go for a million and a half and sell the piece.
Too bad, you see.
But that's how I know about it.
But this was typical of him, you see.
He wanted a specific edition or a specific book, and when he went off on a track, for instance, he started thinking about the Near East, and he started buying books on the Near East, the cradle of civilization.
Not describe him, say, as a humanist, the way with Jefferson?
Oh, he was very definitely a humanist.
Very definitely, if you... Nothing that was foreign to man or humanity was foreign to him.
And he wasn't intimidated by thought.
No, he was not intimidated by thought or language.
I mean, he taught himself Arabic.
He knew Hebrew.
An amazing, amazing man.
It's quite an extraordinary story, isn't it?
Yeah.
An amazing man, that a man should have had his scientific interests.
He had a telescope, and he made certain observations, astronomical observations.
Do you think he saw himself as being in a frontier?
Oh, definitely.
Oh, yes, yes, yes.
An intellectual wilderness?
No question about it.
And he really got to make do with what he could do.
And he went.
After he came to America the first time, he went back to England twice on the proprietary business.
And each time he had himself a ball.
He went to see what all the other people in London were doing.
And it was an exciting thing for him.
He went to a...
meeting of the Royal Society at which Newton was presiding.
That kind of thing it gave him, you know, made him feel, well, this is my world.
Another thing you mentioned in your Wolf book, I'm sorry, the Logan book, is that, and I even maybe see a chapter opening with this, because it kind of is, Benjamin Franklin wrote his obituary in the Gazette.
There you have one.
Well, he... Well, except that Franklin never had the various abilities, the skills that Logan acquired.
He had a quicker mind, I would guess, quicker mind in the sense that he was willing to experiment.
And he observed.
Uh, Logan wrote a, started writing, never finished, a long theological work, which has never been, uh, philosophical work, which has never been printed.
And that was here?
Next door.
All the Logan manuscripts are next door.
The books are all here.
Um, but I found it very difficult to follow.
He, uh,
wrote long, complicated sentences that never seem to end.
And he wrote long, complicated sentences in Latin as well as in English, with relative clause piled upon relative clause and phrases between them.
And it's quite something to work through.
And then we have the legacy of his books, though.
It really was important to him that these books be left for him.
For the public use, but he really knew better.
The public never used them.
But nevertheless, he wanted them to be available.
He wanted them to be available, but... The public never used them?
No.
Who could read Arabic and fill it up?
How many people could use calculus?
They were... Well, you've got an Ivy League school here in the city.
Why?
You have an Ivy League school here in the city with a... Yes, but I'm talking now about the 18th and early 19th century, and it
Really, it was not the kind of library that any but scholars in an academic setting would have had any interest in.
And with all due regard to Penn and the College of Philadelphia and the eventual University of Pennsylvania, I don't think it was a research institution until very much later.
And the books are only good for research.
Do you think they have ever been used for research?
Oh, yes.
I mean, since we've turned them up and so forth and so on.
So it took a while.
It took quite a while.
But it was still a worthwhile request.
Oh, yes.
Now they're here.
Even though they weren't used immediately, there they stayed.
Well, we had, oh, this was a couple of years ago,
There was an editor of Euclid named Clavis, and there was a Jesuit scholar who was working on them, where we had a lot of his books.
Are there any items in his library that really can't be found anyplace else?
I would guess so.
I mean, I've never gone into that and trying to find out whether it's the other.
I do know there is one edition of Ptolemy, Ptolemy's Geography, in his library.
of which they can't find another, or hadn't found another copy.
Where was it printed?
I disremember at the moment.
But it was printed in the 16th century.
It's not nearly the first edition, but something like 1548 or 1449.
It's a fascinating story.
He was certainly not a man of his times, was he?
Yes, he was a man of his times, because there were polymaths in Europe,
and in England at that time.
And, yes, he just didn't happen to be typical of an American frontier, a man who entertained Indians at his house at Stanton.
He never did that, I'm sure.
He did.
He did?
He did, indeed.
Oh, yes.
Now, was this, do you think, kind of a field trip for him, or...?
No, no, no.
It was part of his job as the
agent of the proprietor.
Wow.
No, no, he was, and he was active in the Indian trade.
I mean, that's where he got his furs.
That's how he made a lot of his money, with fur trading.
What, I don't want to miss anything here now.
Would you say that, now you did the Rosenbach book, I guess, that was published in 60 or 61.
So, therefore, a lot of that research must have been done in the 50s, I would have to assume.
Well, it was done after Philip Rosenbach's death.
He died in 53, and I started, I guess, the next year or something.
Would you say that there might be some things that I would want to look at that you just didn't have access to on Rosenbach that might be worth my while looking at over there?
I never saw the files in the New York office.
I had to depend on what John told me or the notes he gave me.
Now they've got all those.
Do you think there'd be anything interesting in there?
I have absolutely no.
I'm sure there must be.
But, I mean, there's material that's in them.
It was made available to me.
I see.
But all the other files I went through piece by piece.
Yeah, but I understand now they're having a show, or about to have a show, an exhibit, and they're disclosing for the first time, they say, details of one of his European book buying things.
Yeah, well, that's some of the detail.
In some of the statements that were made in the book,
I relied on other people.
For instance, the Irish trip.
I relied on some of the things that Sean Leslie either wrote or told me, and they weren't quite factual.
They were good stories.
The whole York Minster business about the dean having too much to drink and so forth and so on apparently was nonsense.
But doctor, I heard doctor tell that story.
I don't know how many times.
Yeah, well, I'm on that.
Okay.
The tape is on.
I'm talking to John Van Horne.
You're the director and librarian.
And effectively the director, but the title has been librarian since the early days.
Yeah.
Obviously, Edwin can talk about what I think, just coming in from Boston, you know, the great people and
And Philadelphia book circles, you talk about, he knows Logan as well as anybody alive, and he can talk about Franklin, and he can talk about Rosenbach, and himself.
I mean, tell me a little bit about what he means, what Edwin means to the... I'd like some quotes about Edwin.
Oh, about Edwin, my God.
Well, I mean, he has got to be one of the most...
important people alive, I think.
I think he is, and it's easy to take him for granted because he's such a fixture around here.
But he really is almost responsible for single-handedly bringing the institution around.
And you may have gleaned that from what I sent you, but the library company had really fallen on some pretty hard times.
There was a period when we were actually administered by the Free Library of Philadelphia
Was this because of apathy or crimes or everything?
I'd say both of those things.
It just sort of became a moribund kind of institution.
It was not at all vital.
It was not centrally located or doing things that were important to the city.
Before the advent of the Philadelphia Free Library, you can actually call it the Free Library of Philadelphia, the library company was the public library.
we were the place of first and last resort for most of the city for reading matter and current novels and newspapers and everything.
And when we were at that location on South Broad Street, we always had an uptown branch that people could come to, and it was always much more well attended than the main building, which has always been in a kind of forlorn, out-of-the-way setting.
But after the advent of the Free Library, that function really became sort of redundant.
and it was not necessary for us to offer the kinds of services any longer that the Free Library was able to do, and that was the Free Library's mandate.
And yet we were not a rare book research library, so we sort of fell between the stools.
And because of our location and because of the services that began to be offered by the Free Library, we sort of lost our sense of purpose for a while.
and there were financial problems, and there was apathy, and the institution, as I say, became kind of moribund, and for a while was actually administered by the Free Library.
That has to be the nadir.
It was.
Like somebody else is winning you, you know?
In fact, we have a huge ledger in which we keep membership records, and we record.
It's been kept from the early days that shows who owns what share, and you can trace the descent of shares in families,
Is that still a custom here?
Do you still do that?
We still do it.
If you joined, I would record you in that very book that was begun by— Do you have membership forms out here?
Can I take some with me?
Sure.
We'd love to sign you up.
Is this unique, do you think?
I mean, are there other libraries that do this?
There are other subscription libraries.
I mean, shares.
You buy shares.
Yeah, subscription libraries still use that form.
For instance, the Athenaeum of Philadelphia.
Probably Boston as well, yeah.
But isn't that registered for those years?
when things were so grim, under the column that says librarian, instead of having an individual's name, it said Free Library of Philadelphia.
So these would be the years prior to the 50s, I would say.
And the phrase in one of those booklets that you sent me that was really kind of interesting was that fresh discoveries were being made on a daily basis.
What does that mean?
We didn't know what was here?
We were sitting on a gold mine and we're not aware of it.
nobody really knew what the nature of the collection was or appreciated.
Now, was this stuff that the library had bought or that had been given to them by collectors?
These were things that were... Can you characterize some of it for me?
Sure, yeah.
Because this kind of falls into what I'm writing about.
It's everything we have now, basically, because these would be things that we purchased at the time of publication or that were given to us at the time of publication that were not rare when they were acquired but became rare over the years just by virtue of being in the collection for so long.
or they were things that were given to us by early collectors or librarians.
But these were sort of lost in the mass of material that had been accumulated over the years of sort of current novels.
And the truly rare materials, the real gems, were just sort of lost in the shuffle.
And it was only after Edwin was asked to come in and evaluate the institution and the collection and advise the board on what should become of it that
He realized the extent of our rare materials and recommended that the library company sell, deaccession, all of this fairly modern fiction and other materials.
You took a cutoff date of 1880, I guess you did.
Well, it was earlier, and it's since crept up to 1880.
It was about the Civil War.
become a rare book and research library and don't try to compete with the free library don't try to replicate what they do but in fact recognize the value of what we have that nobody else has so he sharply sharpened the focus very much so and the fresh discoveries were made when he uh just went into the stacks on a daily basis in the process of doing this appraisal and then after after the institution was redefined uh in the process of of trying to catalog it adequately
Edwin, what were some of the fresh discoveries, the most exciting discoveries that you made when you were going through that?
Well, I would say the book that always makes my hair stand on end is the copy of The History of Louisiana that was borrowed from Benjamin Smith Barton and returned by Meriwether Lewis with a thing
I have taken this with me on my late trip across the continent.
Wow.
You found that here.
Found that, yes.
Could you describe that, how that happened, how you found it?
Well, I opened up the book.
I mean, probably for the first time in a hundred years.
I'm just thinking you were going through the basement.
Were we in the basement?
Well, no.
When I started, every book, every book that was recatalogued, I handled.
But these were things that were basically in the, just the open shelving.
They were in the collection, and we kept pulling books and recataloging them, and putting them.
We built steel shelves in one room, and so forth and so on.
And in the course of looking at it, right in the front was this inscription.
Did you ever marvel at the number of important things like that, that were still on the shelves after all of these years of turmoil and neglect, that they hadn't been... Well, I guess... Yes, I guess there's some things that have gone.
There's a statement in the catalog, an entry in the catalog, that in the Mackenzie collection,
was a complete run of the Poor Richard Almanacs from 1733 on to 1757-58.
We don't have one now.
And there are only two copies.
Oh, yes, we don't have a complete run.
There are only two copies known of the 1733 Almanac.
Where are they?
One's at Rosenbach and one's at the Historical Society.
Neither of those can have been this one.
So what do you think?
What do you suspect?
Well, I don't know what happens with books that are abstracted.
I mean, you just don't know.
It's possible, I suppose, that somewhere, someplace, in somebody's old trunk, it's there.
Be grateful for what you preserve, though, I suppose.
Who knows?
Well, John Lanham, the account of the Athenaeum in Boston, says they're just certain that at some point they had a Tamerlane in the building.
Because the people who printed it or published it were affiliated with the Athenaeum.
So they had to have had a copy in-house.
And so what happened?
Well, you might have had one here, too, for all you know.
Less likely, but possible.
Less likely.
Well, it's possible, because two of the major books of American literature the library company bought when they first came out, Moby Dick and Leaves of Grass.
Very nice.
And both of those were
underestimated books at the time.
Well, Moby Dick wasn't rediscovered until the 1920s.
1920, until they found Billy Budd in the trunk.
That's what happened, and the re-evaluation started.
And the first edition of that is so scarce, because it didn't sell, and Harper's had a fire.
So most of the first printings got destroyed.
I mean, so Moby Dick, I think the true first of that is English, actually.
That's right, the whale.
That's right, yeah.
So that, those were, you didn't buy a, uh, Mark McCorrison tells a wonderful story about how Audubon, when he was, you know, doing the book, he came through Worcester and, and, uh, he came, he had two days trying to sell him a copy of the book, but they were too busy to see him.
So they never, you know, they didn't get it.
And Reich says he was just another bookseller at the time.
We didn't buy, we didn't buy a copy of Audubon, but we did buy a copy of Muybridge's whole great big thing, the human form in motion, or the animal in motion, rather.
Did we pretty much cover Logan?
I think so.
Tell me when we have to wrap up, by the way.
I'm going off in about 10 minutes.
How long do you have today?
I'm going to go over to the Rosenbach at about 2.
I'm going to see Ellen Dunlap over there.
Green can spend some time with you if you like.
I don't know if you have plans for lunch.
I can call you back at some point, too.
I thought I might just run over to see a couple of these bookstores here.
The mountain's right down the street.
And is McManus around here, too?
He's right behind us on the next street.
I really want to use every minute I've got here.
Yeah.
Okay.
Excuse me.
I have one or two other important... Oh, incidentally.
You asked me a question that I think Mary and I could answer.
Yes.
which is why Arthur Houghton sold his books.
She'd know.
They were very close friends, the Hydes and Arthur.
Do you think she'll know?
Do you think anybody knows?
Well, I'd ask her.
She's your best bet.
That's an interesting question, isn't it?
Yes, it is.
Anything on Benjamin Franklin?
We were talking about Franklin writing the obit for Logan.
I was thinking that might be a nice way to open that chapter.
one bookman paying tribute to it, one great bookman paying tribute to another.
Was Franklin a great bookman, by the way?
Can we make that statement?
Oh, yes, I'd say that.
This is really a creation of his, isn't that correct?
That's right.
So Philadelphia really has this, I guess, when we were done.
Of course, he didn't see it as a rare book library.
Or a research library, indeed.
But the book has...
It's more than just something to covet.
As you said about Logan, he could care less about weary, scarcity, and value.
It was a good book, the best available edition.
And Franklin was more interested in the utility of making a collection that would be available for years more than anything else.
I want you to, this is very important to me, Lessing Rosenwald.
A very interesting person.
I think
I'm thinking of starting a chapter where, quoting him in his recollections of a collector, where he says, the only time he ever gave the doctor to go ahead, a blank check, to buy anything, was to buy something, in essence, that he detested, which was this
This thing that the Nazis wanted, the Simon of Trent.
Which the American Jewish historians sold.
$467,000.
Outrageous.
But it is interesting that Rosenwald, this is an interesting side to the collector, to collect something that you detest, that is so untrushional that you don't even want to put it in your own collection.
But you feel, why not just destroy it?
Well, he wanted to keep it where it would be safe and not used for anti-Semitic purposes.
And the Nazis were the underbidder, apparently, on that.
Apparently.
And they tried to open up the sale again.
Then he gave it to the American Jewish Historical Society in Massachusetts, which in 86, one would expect that they would keep it.
They sold it.
to pay the rent.
Absolutely.
How would you feel if you were one of Rosenwald's heirs?
Well, I asked them, and they... Well, they wound up at Yeshiva, so it's in a good place.
But that's not the point.
I think that when you do something like that... No, I thought it was outrageous, and I tried to get them excited about it, but they weren't excited.
I'd say that most gifts that come in do not have explicit...
stipulations that they could never be alienated, but it's just a practice to honor them.
Well, no, this was a very special...
He said this is the only time he gave the doctor a blank check.
I mean, in other words, when he bought his Gutenberg Bible, he had limits.
When he bought all these extraordinary things, he had limits, but there were no limits.
As it turned out, he only paid about $4,000.
Maybe he was talking a little bit.
But I love the story in your book where he also is the one responsible for the doctor
returning the Alice.
Yes, it's true.
So Lessing kind of had this sense, I guess.
That that's where it belonged, back in the British Library.
There's something interesting about Lessing.
You know, he had a Morocco or half-Morocco case made for every single book that he bought.
The only person I know who ever did that, and the only collector.
So that he never had any old bindings on his shelves.
So he had the best of all the possible worlds.
They weren't uniform.
They were different colors and different sizes, but they were not the old bindings.
Maybe he loved these Morocco pieces.
No, he... Maybe there was a collection in his own words.
No, it was a matter of...
preservation.
He thought that was the best way to keep them.
Did they travel with the books when he gave them away?
Oh yes, of course.
Of course.
But I always thought that was an unusual quirk.
Now, if you do it for books that are in bindings that are in bad condition, or bindings that he bought qua bindings, that's one thing, but everything.
I've heard it suggested that he
He actually got a good tax break from the government.
I can't tell you where I heard this, because it's just nothing documented.
But when he gave all this great collection to the country, in return he didn't have to pay income taxes.
Have you ever heard anything like that?
No, but I would guess he had.
The usual write-off of the value?
That's right.
I think it may have been.
Well, he gave it in chunks.
I mean, he didn't give it all.
Well, look what they got, too.
I mean, why not?
Presumably each chunk was of enough value to offset all of his income for that year.
Which is, you know, that's one of the reasons that institutions claim today that the private collector is the big deal again, because all of a sudden it's not attractive.
for me to give my collection to an institution.
I'm not getting any kind of a tax write-off with the tax repayment.
That's who you are.
Oh, yes, you are.
Well, I hope I'm getting a tax write-off.
Indeed.
What?
Does he want to wrap up now?
I'm sorry?
No, no.
Oh, I thought he said a taxi write.
Tax write-off.
For those.
I'm sorry.
What do you think of Edwin's collection over there?
It's fabulous.
We're delighted.
We're delighted to have it.
Does it have a special name?
Well, I guess it's the Wolf Collection, at least informally, but we decided to house it here, sort of on permanent public display in the Logan Room, and keep it together.
The Wolf Collection of 18th century books most likely to be found in the Colonial American Library.
And how do you feel sitting here looking at that in a Logan Room?
I think it's fine.
Normally, even though we would know which books constitute a particular gift or collection, everything would be individually accessioned and then broken up and shelved in the appropriate part of the stacks.
And so this is about the only instance where we can actually keep the collection intact and housed together.
And Jim Green thinks it looks better than does.
You know David Redden at Sotheby's in New York?
He believes that we are now in a new golden age of American book collecting.
What do you think?
He should.
He means prices.
Well, yeah, he's saying, well, there are things available.
I should send you a copy of this story.
He said, if you had $100 million, you could build one of the finest libraries ever put together.
That's not true.
That's my question for you.
I think what he means is that prices are now at such a level that institutions can't hope to compete.
No, he means two things, because I pursued the point with him.
He means that's number one.
But number two is that people now know the market, and things that they never thought they would see sold again are being sold again.
Well, yeah, but it's because the great private libraries are being broken up.
Like Bradley Martin's, for instance, and Doheny's.
But instead of going into institutions, they're just being reconstituted into other private libraries so that ultimately, I suppose, in another generation, we'll see the same books come up for sale again.
But I'm interested in why you say it's not true.
You show me, or let anybody show me, where you can gather.
A respectable collection of Shakespeare quartos.
I mean, just to give you one instance, a respectable collection of Blake.
One or two, yes, sure, they're always the odd ones, but I'm talking about a collection now.
You can't collect Blake, and you can't collect Shakespeare quartos.
I don't care who says what.
Or Richard's Almanacs, either.
That's right.
Or Richard's Almanacs.
Yeah.
I don't think it's possible for a collector today to buy the way Henry Huntington did.
In seven years, with unlimited wealth, put together, you know, one of the finest collections in the world.
Because he would buy entire libraries.
That's right.
He bought en bloc.
En bloc.
And now, and also, you see, once upon a time, the last upheaval in
Europe after World War I. You had institutional libraries that came on the market, and like the couple Gutenberg Bibles were sold at that time.
The Russians sold the famous Codex at that time, Codex Sinaiticus.
I mean, those things
The Russians aren't going to start selling books off.
The German libraries aren't going to be allowed to get rid of their best things.
I mean, it just won't happen that way.
The Golden Age, then, is in the past, as far as you're concerned.
For some things.
I mean, it depends.
You talk about golden books.
Well, what are the golden books?
of the next century going to be.
They're not going to be these.
They're going to be something else.
Well, that goes back to something you said earlier.
One thing that you like to do as a collector is to collect something that nobody else does.
Is to identify something that nobody else is doing.
Somebody right now must be putting together a collection on AIDS research.
You know, the first time the word was ever used, for instance.
You know, I mean, there are people who do medical things.
There are people who do any kind of different things.
I would just, I just throw that out.
There will be new classics.
There will be.
There are one hopes, as long as there's a human intellect.
No doubt about it.
Somebody, I forget, I read it somewhere, somebody has been very busy making a collection of computer literature.
Oh, that's right.
Yeah, I'm afraid I'd have to... We can always talk again on the phone.
Yes, please call me.
Are there some... Can I grab some part of those little handouts and things?
Oh, sure.
There's a little brochure at the front desk.
If you ever see anything that I could use, appreciate it.
Now we'll be in touch.
Thanks very much.
Thanks for coming.
Do you want to wrap it up?
Yeah, unless you've got... Let me just shut this off for a second and just a little bit more about the doctor, Dr. Rosenbach, and where you did mention in your book where Smith's death helped the doctor become the major league.
That is one of those things, a circumstance, I guess.
Tim, what do you remember most about Rosenbach?
When I say his name, who do you see, what do you see?
He was a master of public relations, certainly.
Well, he was a master of public relations, but he did have an appealing personality, and that was part of the game.
Now, granted, the personality is, I think, I made
perfectly clear, was an alcohol-fueled persona, but it was warm, it was interesting, he was informed, and anybody who was collecting, Lessing Rosenwald is a good example, listened to the doctor.
as though the doctor were a prophet.
Well, in many ways, he was.
That's what he would say, listen to the doctor?
Yeah.
He was prophesying that these are great books and they'll be better.
I mean, everybody thought he was crazy when he once said, Gutenberg Bible will sell for $100,000 someday.
Whoever would have guessed.
I mean, you know.
Lita Solis Cohen.
You know Lita?
Oh, of course.
I did a piece for Main Antiques Digest for her.
She said that somebody at an auction house told her that the going phrase for the 90s is, whatever you paid for it in the 80s, put another zero after it for the 90s.
Isn't that an interesting rule of thumb?
Yes, but you know, there are still cheap things.
There are some things.
And opportunities.
There's some things that have not gone up in price, the way Gutenberg bought... Well, we're talking high spots, you know, but for instance... Well, if somebody really started collecting American revolutionary pamphlets, for instance, the prices they're going for aren't tremendous.
You get one like Payne's Common Sense, yes.
five-star book, but run-of-the-mill things haven't accelerated in price, and somebody with comparatively modest needs, willing to pay three, four, five hundred dollars for a book, can buy them.
What is it about, maybe we can wrap it up,
Do you have any insight on the psychology of a bibliophile, a bibliomaniac?
Of what?
The psychology of a person who would spend... No, I just don't understand why somebody wants something that badly.
I mean, I find it difficult to believe that they are
dedicated bookmen.
I may be doing them, be most unfair, but I just don't see Mr. Forbes.
He's dismissed by everybody so far as I can tell.
As a bookman or a collector, I see him as making headlines.
Well, there's a dealer.
I'll shut this off.
So you would not describe yourself, then, as a bibliomaniac in any way?
Oh, I'm not a bibliomaniac.
I think I know what I'm doing.
You see, the maniacal part of it is spending money without knowing why.
But you certainly get a feeling that you probably can't describe when you pick something up that's wonderful.
Well, yes.
I mean, sure.
I'd love to have a Gutenberg Bible of my own, but, you know, it doesn't make any sense.
So I'd collect American Victorian bindings, you see.
And what's happened is, when I started, I was getting them by the carton from dealers.
You know, so much a piece, but if you take them all, you can have them for that.
And that's all dried up.
Let's just take one fast look through the notes here, and we can wrap it up.
Bill Targ was your editor, I gather, by the way.
Right.
Well, Bill Targ was the promoter, not the editor.
But he's still around, I guess, isn't he?
He might be an interesting person to talk to.
Well, he was in the book world quite early in Chicago.
Bill, yeah, I would think he's a good person to talk to.
We talked about Rosenwald.
We talked about Rosenbach.
Dr. Houghton, Motivation.
We talked about all those things, catalogs.
Just checking off my areas here.
Martin Bodmer was the name you mentioned as well.
Yeah, well, I didn't know Martin Bodmer, but he too sold books, you know.
Now, that's a... Would you do me the honors and subscribe this?
Now, you'll have to give me your cards.
I'm sorry, the what?
The collector's approved books.
Yeah, that's what I'm saying.
People spend a lot of money for these things.
That's right.
I collect them as they come my way.
That's kind of how I define that.
I think I've got plenty of stuff, and anything I don't have, I can always call you.
Okay.
Because this has been great, and I don't want to overextend my welcome.
Well, fine.
Thank you very much.
I'll ask you about most of the things about Lou Feldman.
I would say he was a great play actor.
I don't know.
He was a good promoter.
He apparently was a good salesman because he sold Texas all kinds of things.
He had an exclusive angle with him.
How did he work that?
I have no idea.
Lou Feldman once called me and said he wanted to take a look at a library of Americana and he really didn't know anything at all about
Americana, and would I go with him and give him the benefit of my advice?
So we went up, what the heck was the very famous library, went up to Saco, Maine, and spent the day.
The library was in Maine?
Deering was the library, D-E-E.
R.I.N.C.
was the library.
Good Steves had already looked at it, and had made an offer that was not acceptable to Mr. Deary.
We went up, and I looked at it, and I said, this is a library that needs an awful lot of looking into, because there's a certain amount of imperfection and some
facsimile title pages.
But all in all, it's a fabulous library.
I said I couldn't begin to guess what you do until you had a pretty damn good catalog of it.
Well, it was eventually sold to Newbury.
Chicago.
In Chicago.
And I became very friendly with Mr. Deerick.
He did not like Lou Feldman, period.
But every Christmas he had a daughter who lived down here.
Every Christmas he used to come down, stop in at Broad and Christian Street, and we'd go out to lunch and have a couple of martinis.
But this was for a couple of years after that.
So he was an interesting character, though, I guess.
Well, he was an interesting character, but... I heard somebody say...
and I won't identify the person, but had some relationship with Texas.
I hope he took his secrets to the grave with them.
Well, one wonders.
I guess he would sell stuff to Texas at a higher price, but he'd wait for two or three years for the money to catch up.
Have you heard those stories?
Yeah.
I was in his place when he had in a huge chest
Tennessee Williams manuscripts.
Do they have that down in Texas?
I don't know what happened to it.
Yeah, they do.
They claim to have the preeminent Tennessee Williams collection.
Well, I saw it.
And I had a delightful day with Dave Kirchenbaum, and could you give me a couple quotes on Dave?
Dave said, just, if you don't much about him, he's just a wonderful man, it seems to me.
Yeah, Dave was fine.
He's always been very friendly to me.
The trade doesn't like Dave Feldman.
Why is that?
I think because he was too close to some of the auctioneers.
Well, he told me that he pushed John Marion around in his baby carriage.
He and Lou Marion, I guess his father, were very friendly.
I have been told that I don't know this as a fact, and had no reason to
I have no reason to believe it, that he was denied membership in the American Antiquarian Bookman Association now.
He's not in it, I know that.
He's not in it.
Yeah.
And I have no idea why.
I wonder why.
Well, that must be a story that... Like Graham Morater, isn't it?
Graham Morater was kicked out.
He was kicked out.
That I can understand a little better.
But I must say, Dave has never been anything but nice to me, and I like him.
Gosh, he is, you know, one of the few old-time bookmen left.
He can talk about, he was at the wholesale, he says, in 1912, and he said he has not missed a major sale since then.
I can believe that.
That's amazing.
He knew John Quinn.
He didn't care much for Quinn.
Did you know Quinn at all?
No, I didn't know Quinn.
That's before my time.
But that wasn't... He knew Kennerly, Rachel Kennerly.
He was very friendly with John Fleming.
He was.
He mentioned John, and I would do his matter.
He was very friendly with John Fleming.
He just seems to have been there, though.
I mean, he claims to have had lunch with Bradley Martin three days a week, you know, and I guess he... Probably.
Why would, now just, not speaking just about Dave, but why would dealers not like the fact that he knew auctioneers?
Well, I don't know.
Unless you've got deals, you know, it depends.
Some...
I know so little about this that it's difficult for me to say anything.
Did you ever buy at auctions?
Sure.
Yourself, or did you send agents?
Both ways.
I gather you've made your most satisfying discoveries, though, in places outside of the auction.
That's right.
Things that you just kind of discovered.
Can you give me an anecdote of one of your most exciting discoveries?
I just gave a talk in which I said I really never had an exciting discovery.
Why is that?
I don't know.
I never found a Tamerlane.
I found Emily Dickinson's first book of poems for five dollars in a garage.
Well, you see, in hindsight, some of the things, some of those things are fine, but they're not exciting discoveries.
Today they look cheap.
but that's all.
I just can't believe you haven't made an exciting discussion.
No, no.
What's your biggest decision?
All my, all my, the books I bought for myself, the things that I bought for the library company when I first came, unbelievably cheap, but the duplicates that I sold to get that money were sold unbelievably cheap.
So, you know.
I got plenty of stuff here.
Go ahead.
Show Fox.
We're talking about it.
Logan Fox, his name is William Logan Fox, known as Logan, was one of the great, crusty, old Philadelphians.
And everybody respected him.
Most of the people were always slightly scared of him, and my relationship with Logan Fox
who was the Rosenbach's landlord, which is why he knew me.
And when I left Rosenbach's, he is the one who suggested I come take a look at the library company.
Logan Fox, not long after I came to the library company, would look at all the bills
sign all the checks, he was the treasurer, and speak to me on the telephone two or three times a week.
And I was on the telephone, this was maybe about a month after I came, and he said, young man, I want to tell you something.
And through my head I wondered, mind
I wonder what I've done wrong.
I mean, he had that kind of thing.
He said, young man, I'm not Mr. Fox, I'm Logan.
That's a great story.
Joe says he's got a pretty, it sounds like he has a pretty interesting collection and stuff that he inherited, I guess.
Well, Joe has what's left.
I got an awful lot of it.
You mentioned that, yeah.
Yeah, I'm, he's given the cream.
When we had lunch,
in October in New York, and he said, I sure hope you're going down to Philadelphia.
And I said, I am, I am, I really am.
Edward Newton, he was a super popular chronicler of the... That's right.
He made rare book collecting popular to an Atlantic monthly audience.
which is quite a feat.
That's not an insignificant achievement.
And while there were an awful lot of people